# tools_and_methods course 

I will use this repository to keep track of the work done during the tools and methods course, part of the Digital Humanities MA at RUG. I am interested in art products but I don't yet know which topic I will focus on over the course of these months.

Currently, this repository contains the final individual project of the course, which consists of a revision of one of the assignments handed in during the year. I chose to revise and improve assignment number 5.

For this assignment we were asked to work "with two sample datasets: __[all tweets by Barack Obama posted between 2011-2016](https://voyant-tools.org/?corpus=d03f56cf1f086b9393401332276a1a1d)__ and __[all tweets posted by Donald Trump between 2011-2019](https://voyant-tools.org/?corpus=0cb0d286fd9ff4f87308ee0cb22ace28)__. [...] a valuable source for the language use, rhetorics and communication strategies by the two former US presidents". Our task was to "Explore the data using specific queries and search terms. Focus on a topic addressed by Obama and/ or Trump (elections, foreign affairs, the media, economics, the military, racism, etc.) that interests you and take note of the key terms / collocations associated with that topic. Try to identify a pattern in the use of those key terms: a change over time, a contrast in word preferences between the two former presidents, an introduction of new word meanings, etc. Compare the selected key terms / collocations with the word embeddings of these terms represented in TensorFlow’s __[Embedding Projector](https://projector.tensorflow.org)__ (select ‘Word2Vec All’ as a training model in the ‘Data’ Menu)".

I chose to revise this particular assignment because it was the one that aroused my interest the most, and after receiving positive and quite reasonable feedback, I proceeded to better describe the data I was analysing and construct my argument in a more structured manner. 
